Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be moving to a more generic Ira Castile interface that will allow us
to handle the Guard and the pickups in the same way so this guard if I hover over him.
He has an attack cursor.
The pickup also has an attack cursor but if I click on them they do fundamentally different things I
can pick up the pickup by clicking on it.
Why attack the guard.
He will actually be attacked and this is entirely being handled by the components on those game objects
in the world.
So let's dive in and see how we can achieve that so we would like to be able to have a generic system
for interacting with components.
Ultimately what we want is to be able to interact with these weapon pickups but actually it will also
be useful for things like combat where we're interacting with essentially an enemy components or maybe
with a combat target component which we already have.
So the way we're gonna do this is as follows we're gonna be using an interface called Ray Castille.
But let me show you how this is going to look.
So imagine we have these three objects in a scene and we do a ray cast through all three of them.
Now what do we expect to happen.
Well first of all we hit this object over here and it is a game object obviously and it has these components
two of which are implementing the eye Ray Cassel interface.
So what do we do.
Well first of all we say Hang on does the first ray Cassel handle this type of hit.
Can it handle it right now.
For example is it enabled or is it close enough is it within range.
Is the mouse down all those kinds of things can it can take into account.
We just need to ask.
Can you handle this Ray cast.
If not we'll give something else a chance.
So we then go down to the next Ray Casper on the same game object.
Maybe that can't handle it.
So we then look at the next thing in our ray cast list.
Again look at its components.
Maybe it's just got one Ray Cassel this time.
So we just ask that one.
Maybe that can't handle it either.
Finally we go on to our last object here and it doesn't have any Ray constables.
So we can completely ignore it and not ask it anything.
So that's going to be the process to do this.
We're going to need a ray Castille class that is going to behave in that way going to allow us to optionally
handle things.
So I'm gonna go and do this over in the scripts control and I'm going to add a new C sharp script called
I Ray Castille remember the prefix AI is for interfaces and we're gonna go in and replace the contents
with an interface.
And so it's going to be interface.
And to use that general interface to populate this out public is what it chooses and I think that's
about right now.
What do I want in here.
I want a method called handle Ray cast like so we won't take any arguments for the moment but we want
to bear in mind that we may actually need to pass in some arguments later on you might need to think
we might need to think about that and obviously we don't put an implementation in here because it's
just the interface is just that contract.
So how would we go about using AI Ray Cassel now.
Well I'm going to create a new function in update just before we interact with combat saying if interact
with components and that's going to be where we deal with the ray constables and if it can interact
with the component then we're just gonna go ahead and return right there and then.
So let's go ahead and generate that method.
All right.
Ray can interact with components and what we said it's going to have to do is it's going to have to
recast through the world getting all of the ray cast hits which we've done before such as Interact with
combat.
We're gonna go over all the hits and get the game objects.
So let's just have a look at the slide again and go through get all the game objects and then we're
gonna get all the components on the game objects that implements AI Ray Castille.
So let's give this a shot.
So we're going through all the hits first of all then we are going to do a hit dot game and see can
we do just a hit dot transformer or something to get a component on it.
And then we can do a get component in fact components we want to get all the ray cesspools remember
and we going to be using a I recast ball.
Now I haven't actually put Ray Cassel in a namespace so let's do a namespace for RPG dot control.
So that is kind of restricted here to this control interface and that's where we're gonna get the components
for AI Ray Castille and I'm gonna store this in a variable the AI Ray Constable array it's gonna be
and I'll just call this the Ray caster balls and we can put semicolon on the end of the line.
Okay so now what we want to do is do again another for each over this time.
I Ray Castille call it Ray Castille in the Ray cast balls all kind of superfluous here.
Then we're gonna do this for each loop over that and what we're going to do is there may be no Ray castles
for example on the last component but that's okay because this for each loop will just not execute the
body at any point.
So what we're gonna attempt to do is see if the ray Cassel can actually handle this recast.
So we're gonna say if Ray casts of all dots handle Ray cast quite simply not passing into any arguments
at the moment then what we're going to do is return true.
We're also going to want to set the cursor.
So for now I'm just going to set the combat cursor.
We will look at setting specific different types of cursor set by the ray Castille later on but for
now we're just going to use the combat cursor.
And finally if we get through every ray Castille and every game object that we have hit and nothing
has handled the Ray cast then we can return false.
There were no Ray Cassel objects through this particular Ray and we haven't set the cursor either.
So I'm going to show you how we can use this approach to set a cursor on the weapon pick up and allow
us to click on weapon pickups in order to pick them up and then we're going to reapply this to combat.
So first of all we have got our own trigger into where we are doing this equip weapon and then hiding
it for a certain amount of time.
Now I'm going to pull this out.
I'm going to extract the method here and just call that pickup because basically what we're saying is
we are asking the on trigger enter to pick up from that player by the way if at this stage you feel
like you could try and implement.
I'm Ray Cassel yourself do pose video and give that a go as a challenge to yourself.
Slightly more advanced so I'm not offering that up as a challenge for everyone.
Now the arguments for pickup.
Actually I want fighter to come in as the argument to pick up so I'm going to take this other dot get
fighter.
Cut that out and I'm gonna stick that in pickup instead it's in the argument for pickup we're going
to calculate it and then I'm going to change the parameter to the pickup method to be the fighter and
that's what we're going to use when doing fighter dot equip so that's equipping the weapon.
Okay so that makes sense.
Now we want to implement that I constables.
So do I.
Ray Castille notice it's not there because it's part of a different namespace.
So we're gonna have to add control in here.
So we're going to depend on control rather than the other way round.
So this is a dependency inversion because we gonna be adding more systems like weapon pickups.
I want the dependency to go that way and then I don't have to go in and edit my control classes every
time I add something new that can be interacted with so this right Constable is gonna need to be implemented.
I'm going to implement the interface go down to where is happening and you notice what I want to do
is call pickup.
In fact what I want to do is call pick up if the mouse is down.
So let's do that.
Inputs don't get mouse button down and we just want mouse button zero.
So if mouse button 0 is down with clicking We want to be picking up this weapon.
So I want to be calling pickup but I don't have a fighter to call it out.
Now I could say well just get the player go and do it on the player.
But I think that's a little bit messy.
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna go to the AI right castles and just have it tell us the player
controller that is calling this so I'm gonna call it the calling controller in the arguments for handle
right cast and we're gonna have to pull that across to a weapon pickup so that it now respects the new
interface.
But now with this calling controller which is a component on the player that is called this we can now
do a calling controller dot get components and we can get the fighter component there and then so we
can get the fighter component we can do the pickup right there when we're clicking.
Now the important thing to note here is that basically if we are hovering over a pickup we should always
be allowed to pick it up so very simply we can just return true.
In this case we can say yes you are.
I'm handling this recast if you have hit me which is a game object that handles weapon pickups.
I am handling it.
You can't do any other things like try and walk to the terrain.
So let's give this a shot and see whether this working well before that I need to go into play controller
and make the new interface be respected.
So I'm just going to pass in this into handle right cast because we are the player controller so that
types should match.
Now let's try it out in the game.
If there are no more errors I should be able to hover over a pickup and you see I've got my attacking
cursor if I click on the pickup while I move over there as well.
But I did pick it up straight away that was the first thing that happened.
So it seems to be working is now that we are able to control and interact with these components using
the eye rake habitable.
So now you might notice that the code in interactive component is actually very similar with the code
in interact with combat with a few differences.
Now what I want you to do as your challenge is to take this interact with combat and eliminate it completely.
Basically by using the combat target class.
So we've got a combat target Yes currently not doing very much but it is on all of the things that are
a combat target.
So what I'd like to do is make this into an irate caster ball and make it handle the body of this interact
with combat so that if we can attack the fight with the fighter then we should.
And so on and so forth.
So basically moving this code into the IRA bill so that it can be used as interact with component pulls
a video and have a go OK.
Welcome back.
So we're going to start off by implementing I Ray testable in the combat target we're going to need
to include RPG control we're going to need to implement the handle recast method and then we're going
to pull across this code.
So the first thing you'll notice inside the body of the for each loop is that we basically this is what
we're doing.
That's what we want to have as the result.
So I'm going to cut that out and put it in handle recast instead.
Now I'm gonna get some errors obviously.
So the first thing is set cursor.
I'm not gonna be doing that here that's going to be done outside in the play controller.
I am going to be returning true if some of this stuff is the case and otherwise I'm going to be returning
false.
So let's consider this through a little bit.
First of all we don't have a hit dot transform but that's okay because actually this combats target
right here is the combat target we want.
It's the target.
So we don't need to do this.
We don't need to do the null check.
It's already happened for us in that code is calling the irate festivals.
Next thing we're doing a get component fighter.
Now we don't want to get the component fighter of the target.
We want to get the component fighter of the calling controller.
So we're doing calling controller dot get component fighter dot can attack this target.
And basically there's target again wherever we're seeing.
Target is just us.
So we're just getting the game object we're saying can the calling controller attack us basically.
And if it cannot attack us for whatever reason maybe we're dead then we actually just need to return
false out of here we need to say no we cannot handle this right cast.
How about if the mouse is down.
Well then we aren't going to actually do the attack on again where the attack is going to be done on
the current game object.
And who's doing the attacking.
It's the calling controller so calling controllers fighter can attack us basically.
And then the return at the end is going to stay true because we've already eliminated the case that
we aren't able to do so hopefully that all makes sense.
I'm going to save up my files.
I'm going to actually remove interact with combat altogether out of this play controller file and I'm
going to remove it from updates because as you can see it's all being handled inside interact with component
now.
Just a side note notice that we can't do the same thing with interact with movement it fundamentally
works in a different way.
We are recasting down onto the nav mesh essentially and we might want to do more clever stuff with that
too.
Basically the problem here is that the nav mesh does not have a component that we can make.
I recast Bill.
So that has to be kept separate.
So now if we launch up the game you can see that if we hover over our guard we've got an attack cursor
hover over our pick up.
We also have an attack curse we'll fix that in the next lecture.
But if I click on my God I will go ahead and attack him.
As per we were doing before.
So all the functionality is the same.
But now we're using a more decoupled system via the I rake testable.
Now as I mentioned already during this lecture we are going to go into the next lecture to change our
curses depending on which objects we're hovering over.
So that for example the hovering over the guard is going to give me the attackers are hovering over
a pickup can give me a pickup a specific cursor.
So I will see you in that lecture.